## Public Finance & Economics

In understanding the relationship between agents within the economy, emphasis must be placed in our government institutions and legislative bodies, especially regarding their spending habits. Many aspects of the present day topic of  public finance were due to the evolution of the role of government post WW2 and leading to different perspectives on government spending (Buchanan, 1975). Considering that US fiscal debt has risen to a point of 121% of gross domestic product (Gaspar et al, 2025), and US debt was downgraded to double AA by three prominent rating agencies, one can infer that there is an issue (Bauer, 2025). Expectations on the role of government could be summarized as meeting the public wants and allocating resources to maximize their satisfaction (Buchanan, 1960). The methods for funding the government would include raising funding through taxes or deficit financing the government budget. To determine that decision, considerations must be made regarding the impact policy could have on consumer habits, firm profit maximization and fiscal debt accumulation (Barro, 1979; Barro, 1990; Zhang et al, 2008). To grasp expectations on fiscal stability, one can consider the fluctuations in the pricing and supply of sovereign debt. These instruments allow the government to facilitate deficit financing to meet its obligations, and can be used by the Federal Reserve to implement monetary policy through other means.
Methods that examine the pricing mechanics of government securities make use of vector-autoregressions and principal components analysis to determine the dynamics of the yield curve (Evans and Marshall, 2006; Ang and Piazzesi, 2003; Adrian et al, 2008). Establishing a vector of endogenous variables and a developing system depicting how the variables affect each other, the pricing dynamics can be examined. Furthermore, given the restrictions, the VAR model can be configured to respect market structures, knowledge about the institution or both (Killian et al, 2017). Then in consideration of the macroeconomic system, determining the factors that would impact the decisions to purchase or sell sovereign debt. On the question of portfolio selection, considerations would go into the expected value and variance of the product of interest (Markowitz, 1952). Then when the investor maximizes utility, the related attributes would have to be reviewed to determine what the true state or price could be(Fishburn, 1968). Therefore, when one determines the expected values and variances of the attributes that affect this product, then one can increase the likelihood of maximizing their utility.   
To execute this analysis, this study makes use of macroeconomic variables to simulate an economy based on the Ramsey-Cass-Koopman model. In depicting a relationship between the level of capital and consumption, one can determine the dynamics of general behaviors in the economy. Simplifying assumptions allow for comparisons between agents within the system and examining the theoretical relationships between agents. With vector-autoregressions, using zero-restrictions to describe the interdependencies between variables allows one to reduce complexity. Additionally, defining these relationships depicts the exogeneity of the variables and provides better understanding on how the SVAR identification would look. Afterwards, the SVAR is constructed, utilizing an AB model to depict the contemporaneous innovations as functions of structural shocks. That determines the later impulse-response functions that help forecast relationships between tax revenue, bond pricing and supply. 
 




